                                                                            prac 1 
Theory of dhcp server:
 1)DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) is a network management protocol used to dynamically assign an Internet Protocol (IP) address to any device, or node, on a network so they can communicate using IP. 
2) DHCP automates and centrally manages these configurations rather than requiring network administrators to manually assign IP addresses to all network devices. DHCP can be implemented on small local networks, as well as large enterprise networks.
3)DHCP will assign new IP addresses in each location when devices are moved from place to place, which means network administrators do not have to manually configure each device with a valid IP address or reconfigure the device with a new IP address if it moves to a new location on the network. 
4)Versions of DHCP are available for use in IP version 4 (IPv4) and IP version 6 (IPv6).
5) IPv6 became an industry standard in 2017 -- nearly 20 years after its specifications were first published. While the adoption rate of IPv6 was slow, by July 2019, more than 29% of Google users were making inquiries using IPv6.
6)DHCP runs at the application layer of the Transmission Control Protocol/IP (TCP/IP) stack to dynamically assign IP addresses to DHCP clients and to allocate TCP/IP configuration information to DHCP clients. 
This includes subnet mask information, default gateway IP addresses and domain name system (DNS) addresses.
7)DHCP is a client-server protocol in which servers manage a pool of unique IP addresses, as well as information about client configuration parameters, and assign addresses out of those address pools. 
DHCP-enabled clients send a request to the DHCP server whenever they connect to a network.
8)A DHCP server manages a record of all the IP addresses it allocates to network nodes. If a node is relocated in the network, the server identifies it using its Media Access Control (MAC) address, which prevents the accidental configuration of multiple devices with the same IP address. 
Configuring a DHCP server also requires the creation of a configuration file, which stores network information for clients.
9)DHCP lacks any built-in mechanism that would enable clients and servers to authenticate each other. 
Both are vulnerable to deception -one computer pretending to be another - and to attack, where rogue clients can exhaust a DHCP server's IP address pool.
10)The uses are:DHCP is used to distribute IP addresses within a network and to configure the proper subnet mask, default gateway and DNS server information on the device.
11)DHCP servers have also been the subject of multiple memory corruption vulnerabilities. In these, attackers have targeted the Windows DHCP Server service. When successful, the attacks can lead to a full compromise of Microsoft Active Directory (AD). 
One such vulnerability, patched by Microsoft, was the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)-2019-0725 Windows DHCP Server Remote Code Execution (RCE) Vulnerability.


HOW TO INSTALL A DHCP SERVER
STEP 1:Click the start button then click the Server Manager
STEP2:On the server manager dashboard click “Add roles and features” This will start the add roles and features wizard.
STEP3: Select Role-based or feature-based installation.
STEP4: Select Role-based or feature-based installation
STEP5: Select server roles
STEP6: Feature, DHCP Server
STEP7:ConfirmationOn the confirmation page you can select to automatically restarted the server if required.
On 2016 server it does not require a restart.Click install and the install will start.
STEP8:You will get a install progress page, it will say install succeeded when complete.
STEP9: configure dhcp server.
STEP 10:In the server manager dashboard you will see a yellow notification at the top left.Now click on “Complete DHCP configuration”
step 11:Post-Install configuration wizard.On the description screen click next.On the authorization page use AD credentials if the server is joined to the domain.
Choose “Skip AD authorization” if the DHCP server is standalone and not joined to the domain.Click commit.You will see a summary page of the configuration steps.
Click close.To access the DHCP management console click start - Windows Administrative Tool - DHCP.
step 12. DHCP management console.
